Apps/WatchServer/README.md, before:


# WatchServer

### Overview ###
WatchServer is an application that detects changes in a file directory and then elicits configured actions in a Rapture system.

Under the hood it uses Java [WatchService](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/file/WatchService.html) and was introduced in Java 1.7.
The WatchService allows you to:
* Register directories to watch
* Detect events: ENTRY_CREATE, ENTRY_MODIFY and ENTRY_DELETE

The WatchServer allows you to register multiple directories and map to actions (or endpoints) in a Rapture system.

Supported actions are:
* Run a local (to the WatchServer) script
* Run a script using the [event api](http://repo.incapturesolutions.com/apidoc/#_event-api)
* Run a workflow

The absolute path (full directory and filename) is passed to the Rapture endpoint via a parameter to allow that program to complete its task.

The WatchServer expects that configuration in a well known place, namely: document://sys.config/watchserver/config. Configuration is covered below.

### System Diagram ###
![System Diagram](/Apps/WatchServer/images/watchservertopology.png)

# Installation and Running #

This example will illustrate the configuration and usage of WatchServer by detecting when a file (xlsx) is dropped into /opt/test. 

Any files created in /opt/test will cause WatchServer to call the following workflow: workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload

This workflow will do the following:

1. Load the file, in /opt/test/, specified by the parameter passed to it from WatchServer
2. Store the file to a blob://archive/yyyyMMdd_HHmmss/filename repository. Step code is [here](https://github.com/RapturePlatform/Rapture/blob/master/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/src/main/java/rapture/dp/invocable/workflow/LoadFile.java)
3. Using blob created in step 2 process the file and write each xls row to a document to a new repo document://data/yyyyMMdd_HHmmss/ROW000001..N Step code is [here](https://github.com/RapturePlatform/Rapture/blob/master/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/src/main/java/rapture/dp/invocable/workflow/ProcessFile.java)

## Using Docker ##

The entire setup can be run using all docker containers.  This is the easiest way to run the stack without doing builds or compiling.  

All images are available on Incapture's public [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/u/incapture/dashboard/)

Here are the relevant commands.

**Start RabbitMQ**
```
docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name rabbit incapture/rabbit
```
**Start MongoDB**
```
docker run -d -p 27017:27017 --name mongo incapture/mongo
```
**Create a Local Data Volume**
```
1. docker volume create --name fileDropVolume
2. docker run -v fileDropVolume:/opt/test alpine mkdir /opt/test/subfolder
3. Download test file from [here](/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/docker/SamplePriceData.xlsx)

(You will copy the sample file to the docker volume in a later step)
```
**Start Rapture API Server**
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 8665:8665 --link mongo --link rabbit -v fileDropVolume:/opt/test  --name curtis incapture/apiserver:xESlatest
```
**Start Rapture UI**
```
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 --link curtis --name rim incapture/rim
```
Checkpoint: To ensure environment is up login to your local environment on [http://localhost:8000/browser](http://localhost:8000/browser)

**Populate Local Data Volume**
```
docker cp SamplePriceData.xlsx curtis:/opt/test/testdata
```
**Start WatchServer Sample Configuration Plugin**
```
docker run --link curtis incapture/watchserverplugin
```
**Start WatchServer**
```
docker run -d --link mongo --link rabbit -v fileDropVolume:/opt/test --name watchserver incapture/watchserver
```
**Checkpoint**

To ensure WatchServer has started successfully the log should state: _"20:00:11,899  INFO [main] (WatchServer.java:98) <> [] - WatchServer started and ready."_

**Kick off a workflow**

Copying the sample xlsx file to /opt/test will cause a CREATE_EVENT to be fired. This will be picked up by WatchServer and cause a workflow to run. The workflow contains (java) code to load and extract data from the sample xlsx file.

```
1. docker exec -it curtis bash
2. cd /opt/test
3. cp ./testdata/SamplePriceData.xlsx .
```
The workflow will start and can be viewed on the UI here [http://localhost:8000/process/workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload](http://localhost:8000/process/workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload)

# Configuration #

Configuration is captured in a Rapture document here document://sys.config/watchserver/config.

This allows you to specify:
* Directory to monitor
* What action to take for a create, modify or delete event in that specified directory

A sample (json) document is given as an example and is installed to your local environment:
```
{
  "/opt/test/subfolder" : [ {
    "event" : "ENTRY_CREATE",
    "action" : "script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/createaction"
  }, {
    "event" : "ENTRY_MODIFY",
    "action" : "script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/modifyaction"
  } ],
  "/opt/test" : [ {
    "event" : "ENTRY_CREATE",
    "action" : "workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload"
  } ]
}
```

Expected Behavior:

1. A file dropped into /opt/test/subfolder will run script script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/createaction
2. if that file (in step 1) changes this script will be run script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/modifyaction
3. A file dropped into /opt/test will run the following workflow workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload

You do not need to specify an event -> action mapping for each event type.

Commit message:

UNFILED: updated docker process by adding an ftp server

Apps/WatchServer/README.md, after:


# WatchServer

### Overview ###
WatchServer is an application that detects changes in a file directory and then elicits configured actions in a Rapture system.

Under the hood it uses Java [WatchService](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/file/WatchService.html) and was introduced in Java 1.7.
The WatchService allows you to:
* Register directories to watch
* Detect events: ENTRY_CREATE, ENTRY_MODIFY and ENTRY_DELETE

The WatchServer allows you to register multiple directories and map to actions (or endpoints) in a Rapture system.

Supported actions are:
* Run a local (to the WatchServer) script
* Run a script using the [event api](http://repo.incapturesolutions.com/apidoc/#_event-api)
* Run a workflow

The absolute path (full directory and filename) is passed to the Rapture endpoint via a parameter to allow that program to complete its task.

The WatchServer expects that configuration in a well known place, namely: document://sys.config/watchserver/config. Configuration is covered below.

### System Diagram ###
![System Diagram](/Apps/WatchServer/images/watchservertopology.png)

# Installation and Running #

This example will illustrate the configuration and usage of WatchServer by detecting when a file (xlsx) is dropped into /opt/test.

Any files created in /opt/test will cause WatchServer to call the following workflow: workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload

This workflow will do the following:

1. Load the file, in /opt/test/, specified by the parameter passed to it from WatchServer
2. Store the file to a blob://archive/yyyyMMdd_HHmmss/filename repository. Step code is [here](https://github.com/RapturePlatform/Rapture/blob/master/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/src/main/java/rapture/dp/invocable/workflow/LoadFile.java)
3. Using blob created in step 2 process the file and write each xls row to a document to a new repo document://data/yyyyMMdd_HHmmss/ROW000001..N Step code is [here](https://github.com/RapturePlatform/Rapture/blob/master/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/src/main/java/rapture/dp/invocable/workflow/ProcessFile.java)

## Using Docker ##

The entire setup can be run using all docker containers.  This is the easiest way to run the stack without doing builds or compiling.  

All images are available on Incapture's public [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/u/incapture/dashboard/)

Here are the relevant commands.

**Start RabbitMQ**
```
docker run -d -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 --name rabbit incapture/rabbit
```
**Start MongoDB**
```
docker run -d -p 27017:27017 --name mongo incapture/mongo
```
**Create a Local Data Volume**
```
1. docker volume create --name fileDropTest
```
Download test file from ![here](/Apps/WatchServerPlugin/docker/SamplePriceData.xlsx). You will ftp this later in the process.

**Create a FTP Server**
Create a ftp server, login to server and create a ftp user for later use
```
1. Create FTP server: docker run -d -v fileDropTest:/home/ftpusers --name ftpd_server -p 21:21 -p 30000-30009:30000-30009 -e "PUBLICHOST=localhost" stilliard/pure-ftpd
2. Login into server: docker exec -it ftpd_server bash
3. Add an FTP user  : pure-pw useradd filedrop -f /etc/pure-ftpd/passwd/pureftpd.passwd -m -u ftpuser -d /home/ftpusers/filedrop
4. Supply password twice
5. Logout of server : exit
6. Bounce FTP server: docker restart ftpd_server
```
**Start Rapture API Server**
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 8665:8665 --link mongo --link rabbit -v fileDropTest:/home/ftpusers  --name curtis incapture/apiserver:xESlatest
```
**Start Rapture UI**
```
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 --link curtis --name rim incapture/rim
```
Checkpoint: To ensure environment is up login to your local environment on [http://localhost:8000/browser](http://localhost:8000/browser)
**Start WatchServer Sample Configuration Plugin**
```
docker run --link curtis incapture/watchserverplugin
```
**Start WatchServer**
```
docker run -d --link mongo --link rabbit -v fileDropTest:/home/ftpusers --name watchserver incapture/watchserver
```
**Checkpoint**

To ensure WatchServer has started successfully the log should state: _"20:00:11,899  INFO [main] (WatchServer.java:98) <> [] - WatchServer started and ready."_

**Kick off a workflow**

FTP'ing the sample xlsx file to /opt/test will cause a CREATE_EVENT to be fired. This will be picked up by WatchServer and cause a workflow to run. The workflow contains (java) code to load and extract data from the sample xlsx file.
```
1. ftp -p localhost 21
2. Supply username and password (filedrop/<password>)
3. put SmallSamplePriceData.xlsx
```
The workflow will start and can be viewed on the UI here [http://localhost:8000/process/workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload](http://localhost:8000/process/workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload)

# Configuration #

Configuration is captured in a Rapture document here document://sys.config/watchserver/config.

This allows you to specify:
* Directory to monitor
* What action to take for a create, modify or delete event in that specified directory

A sample (json) document is given as an example and is installed to your local environment:
```
{
  "/opt/test/subfolder" : [ {
    "event" : "ENTRY_CREATE",
    "action" : "script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/createaction"
  }, {
    "event" : "ENTRY_MODIFY",
    "action" : "script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/modifyaction"
  } ],
  "/opt/home/filedrop" : [ {
    "event" : "ENTRY_CREATE",
    "action" : "workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload"
  } ]
}
```

Expected Behavior:

1. A file dropped into /opt/test/subfolder will run script script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/createaction
2. if that file (in step 1) changes this script will be run script://scripts/incapture/watchserver/modifyaction
3. A file dropped into /opt/test will run the following workflow workflow://workflows/incapture/watchserver/wsload

You do not need to specify an event -> action mapping for each event type.
